[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Carl Johan Calleman is with
us, a former cancer researcher
who is now an author
devoted to the meaning
of the Mayan calendar.
Carl, welcome to the program.
>>CARL JOHAN
CALLEMAN: Thank you.
Good to be here.
>>NOORY: The Mayan calendar,
that 2012 date on December 21st,
everybody thought the
world was going to end.
What did it mean?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, I think
it was an actual change--
a significant change.
And to go back from the Maya,
they actually did write--
and this is very amazing.
1,500 years ago, they did write
an inscription of what was going
to happen on this
particular date.
And what it says is a little
bit mysterious, maybe.
But what it says
is that an entity
they called the nine storied
deity, the nine level deity,
would appear in
its full regalia.
And what I interpret
that to mean
is that there are nine
levels of consciousness
that are sort of inscribed
in the Mayan pyramids.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>CALLEMAN: And all of those
would, in principle, be active,
and I think that is
really what happened.
But it was also a complicated
change, a much more complicated
change than anybody
had anticipated
because some of these
waves would turn down
and others would go up.
These are waves of
creation that the Maya
would use as the basis
of their calendar system.
So I do think it was a change.
And in certain ways, I
think life has become harder
for people after this change.
In other ways, there are
new possibilities coming up.
>>NOORY: How did
you go from being
a cancer researcher to
an expert on the Maya
and the Mayan calendar?
>>CALLEMAN: Well,
I guess I simply
went to Mexico when
I was 29 years old,
and I was still a graduate
student at the time.
And I was quite taken by
the Mayan civilization,
the knowledge they had, and
I got this strong feeling
that their calendar is
true in some deep way
that we haven't really
figured out ourselves.
And so that experience of
feeling this and the experience
that this is where my
purpose of my life is--
that's where it is.
It's here.
It stayed with me.
And then there came
a point in time--
I had been at the
University of Washington
in Seattle working there
for 10 years as a scientist,
and then I decided
to leave that.
And I wanted to devote myself
full-time, starting 1993,
to finding out what is
their calendar about,
because in certain ways, it's so
different from other calendars
on our planet, and
that's fascinated me.
>>NOORY: Carl, was it a
dramatic shift for you?
>>CALLEMAN: I never
saw it like that,
because I felt this is just
another science, so to speak.
It's just a
broadening of science,
incorporating what the
Native American peoples had.
Maybe the most advanced
intellectual expressions
of the Native American peoples,
I would say, came with the Maya.
And so I just looked
upon it as expanding.
But then that's not how
the scientific community
would always look upon it.
They would say that this is an
area you can't really go into--
>>NOORY: Why?
>>CALLEMAN: That's how it is.
But it wasn't that
big a shift for me.
It was natural.
>>NOORY: Explain to us, Carl,
what the Mayan calendar is.
>>CALLEMAN: Well, first of all,
there are so many calendars.
You can count 100 calendars.
But they're all connected, or
most of them are connected.
And for instance,
there is something
called the sacred calendar,
which is 260 days long,
and it always goes 260 days,
and then it goes on to 260 days.
And people were curious about
this because our own calendars
are based on astronomy, but
there is no astronomical
connection to a
260-day calendar.
And so it's something else.
And what I've come
to conclude is
that these are
waves of describing
the evolution of
consciousness, and that's
why they do not follow the
astronomical cycles in the way
that all other calendars
do on our planet.
>>NOORY: When they
put this together,
how long ago are
we talking about?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, I think you
can say the sacred calendar is
about 3,000 years old.
>>NOORY: That old?
Wow.
>>CALLEMAN: That old, yes.
And they fairly recently
pushed the date back,
so it came to that.
>>NOORY: Why did they have
so many different calendars?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, because they
felt that it was prophetic,
and they wanted to find
out which ones are really
prophetic, which ones can we
really learn about where we are
and where we're going,
et cetera, et cetera.
And then you can take the
study of the Mayan calendar
to any level of
complexity depending
on how many of these calendars
you're putting together,
so to speak.
And sometimes that has
made it a little bit
difficult to explain the
Mayan calendar because there
are certain calendars that
are very much to the point,
I would say, and others
that it's much harder to see
what they really were about.
>>NOORY: The 2012 date--
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What did
that represent?
What do you think
the Mayans expected?
>>CALLEMAN: Well,
what it did represent
is that there was something
called the Long Count starting
3114 BC before, and
that's their chronology.
Like we have the
Christian chronology
and the Muslims have the
Muslim chronology, so to speak.
We have chronologies where we
relate all historical events to.
And so to them, whenever they
built a pyramid, whenever
a king was crowned or
something like that,
they would date it based on
this so-called Long Count.
And that--
>>NOORY: A long-form calendar?
>>CALLEMAN: Long form.
And that came to an end
at that particular date.
And so that's why--
yeah, that's what is about.
>>NOORY: We have an image
from your book depicting
the days of the Mayan calendar.
Let's take a look at it, and
tell us what these represent.
>>CALLEMAN: OK.
What you have here
is a wave movement.
And I prefer to describe these
calendars as waves because there
are time periods here called
day that are creative,
forward movement, and then
there are time periods that
are valleys or you
could call them
nights when things are
going backwards or resting
or something like that.
And what you see here is that
all of these peaks and valleys,
they are connected
to various deities,
and these deities then
had certain qualities.
And they expected that in the
corresponding time periods,
these deities would
dominate the world.
And as they dominated
the world, they
would shape the human reality.
For instance, this is--
it starts with a god
of procreation,
Xiuhtecuhtli, as it's called,
meaning that that's a time
period when things are seeded--
new ideas, the
sowing, so to speak.
And then there is an
evolutionary process
going through from
sowing, germination,
sprouting, up to the mature
fruition, so to speak.
So the waveform describes
an evolutionary process
so that every step
usually adds another--
>>NOORY: Layer.
>>CALLEMAN: --layer to what
had existed previously.
>>NOORY: Why do they have
so many deities, Carl?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, they need
one for every time period.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>CALLEMAN: So
here they have 13.
>>NOORY: I'm familiar
with Quetzalcoatl.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, that is a
significant deity, god of light.
And that particular
deity was considered
as the bringer of life and
the bringer of civilization.
>>NOORY: Did they
worship these gods?
>>CALLEMAN: Yes, like
Quetzalcoatl in particular,
I would say.
There are several of
their pyramids dedicated
to Quetzalcoatl.
For instance, in
Chichén Itzá, which
is the most visited of all
Mayan sites in the Yucatán,
there is the central pyramid.
It's the pyramid
of Quetzalcoatl.
And you can see
the plumed serpent
moving down the staircase
from this pyramid.
>>NOORY: Well, you just
mentioned the plumed serpent.
What exactly is that?
>>CALLEMAN: Well,
plumed serpent,
it's another name
for Quetzalcoatl
or that we translate
Quetzalcoatl to.
>>NOORY: It's that God?
>>CALLEMAN: Yes, it's that God.
But on the other hand,
the way I look upon it
is that the plumed
serpent is just--
it's another name for this wave
movement that we just looked at.
So even though there is
a particular energy, time
when the plumed serpent
was particularly prominent,
the whole wave is a plumed
serpent, as I see it.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look
at another illustration
of the Mayan stepped
pyramid and tell us
what the serpent significance
is in this photograph.
>>CALLEMAN: OK.
Yes, so here we have it.
But I just mentioned--
>>NOORY: They built that?
>>CALLEMAN: They built that.
And it's an amazing
experience to be there.
>>NOORY: If a human was standing
by it, Carl, how big would it
look?
>>CALLEMAN: It's not that big.
It's like 25 yards
high, this particular--
>>NOORY: So maybe
that first layer
would be the size of a human?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Down at the bottom?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah,
that makes sense.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>CALLEMAN: It makes sense.
But here you have the pyramid.
The house at the top is
supposed to symbolize
the center of the
universe, and it's
from that center of the
universe that all of these waves
are emanating.
And these waves then, we
are downloading these waves
and creating reality with them.
But then you can see
here also at the bottom,
down at the bottom
left there, you
see the head of
this plumed serpent.
And then you can see
seven triangles of light
going down into that, and those
were actually the seven days
that we just saw at
the earlier picture.
So this particular
light phenomenon
where seven triangles
of light are formed,
it only happens
on the equinoxes.
And I've seen this
live, so to speak,
and it's an amazing
experience because somehow it
goes into your marrow, how did
they build the pyramid to create
that effect on just those--
>>NOORY: We're still
trying to figure out
how the Egyptians did theirs.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, that's
an even bigger-- probably,
but this is also
another thing here.
>>NOORY: What is the little
opening at the top there?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, it's
the door into-- it's sort
of a little house on top there.
>>NOORY: So there's
something inside?
>>CALLEMAN: There
is something inside.
And you can go inside there,
and usually ceremonies
were performed inside of this--
>>NOORY: How intuitive
were the Mayans, Carl?
How smart were they?
>>CALLEMAN: They must have been
intuitive, I think, in many ways
that we do not count or we
don't include, so to speak.
It's hard to tell.
But we also do know that
they were using mushrooms
for enhancing their other--
>>NOORY: Like ayahuasca?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, enhancing
their otherworldly experiences
and so forth.
And that seems to have
been a significant part.
>>NOORY: Was it hallucinogenic?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It was?
Yeah, so there's a
lot of mushroom cults
found among the Maya.
>>NOORY: How important
was time to them?
>>CALLEMAN:
Everything, everything.
So everything was
organized around time.
So just for instance, there is
a 20-days calendar that's part
of the sacred calendar, and
every day in the calendar
specifies, for instance, what
you're supposed to eat on that
day.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
So they had a time-based diet.
>>NOORY: Everything
was programmed?
>>CALLEMAN: Everything
was programmed with time,
so to speak.
>>NOORY: You eat this.
You sleep here.
You do this.
You do that.
>>CALLEMAN: Right.
Politically, at least
in their later history,
they would have
different cities becoming
the capital, which is very
strange to our way of thinking.
It's like, OK, this
month it's Washington DC.
Next month it's Baltimore.
>>NOORY: Chicago.
>>CALLEMAN: Chicago or
something like that.
But they actually had that.
And that's also a
time-based thing
because whatever Chicago
would have been would be just
that particular time period.
And then we have only four
surviving books from the Maya,
and those are all calendars.
>>NOORY: Were they
brilliant people, Carl?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, I think so.
They were brilliant in
understanding the cosmos
and connecting themselves
to the cosmos, I would say.
They were very cosmic
people, I would say.
>>NOORY: Why so many calendars?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, because I
think they were exploring.
It's almost like
asking the question--
if you go to a
university here and ask,
why do you have so many
departments in the university?
Well, to them, they had probably
many different calendars,
and they wanted to find out
which one corresponds mostly
to the changes we
experience here.
>>NOORY: A lot of people feel
that time is going by quicker.
It seems like every year they
go, what happened to that year?
It went by so fast.
Do you feel that way too?
>>CALLEMAN: Oh,
absolutely, absolutely.
>>NOORY: What generates that?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, part of it, I
mean, some people say it's age,
and I think, yes, I might
have come to that age where
things just flow on.
But then it's also
something else.
We saw an example of
a wave movement there,
but these waves, the nine waves
that the pyramid describes,
they have different frequencies.
And as history has progressed,
as the history of the universe
has progressed, the frequency
of these waves have increased,
meaning that if you
go back 100,000 years,
changes were very slow
presumably, as far as we know.
Whereas now, especially
recently when
the eighth and the
ninth wave have
been activated with
much higher frequencies,
things are changing
much more rapidly.
>>NOORY: They are.
Let's bring consciousness, Carl,
into the equation for a moment.
What does it mean to
you, consciousness?
>>CALLEMAN: Well,
to me, it simply
means the ability to have
a subjective experience.
And without
subjective experience,
you don't have meaning.
You don't have a significance.
You don't have value, really.
So that's what it means.
And it's something that--
to me, it's something
that we download.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Well, now we have a visual
representation of consciousness
from your book.
Break it down.
Maybe that'll help explain this.
>>CALLEMAN: OK.
So here we have the
wave again, and then you
see there is the
arrow pointing time.
So the wave obviously
moves with time.
And then consciousness, it's
sort of an invisible shape
there.
And time and space actually
are aspects of consciousness.
But we'll never be
able to demonstrate
the existence of
that consciousness
because consciousness,
as I understand it
and several of the
pioneers of quantum physics
would say the same thing,
consciousness is primordial.
It's the most basic things
that exist in the universe.
>>NOORY: It is.
It is.
>>CALLEMAN: So no
instrument is going
to be able to demonstrate
consciousness.
>>NOORY: How does the Big
Bang theory tie into this?
>>CALLEMAN: It ties in a
very good way, so to speak.
If you look at the 9
levels of the pyramid
that we looked at,
then the bottom level
begins a little bit before
the Big Bang, so to speak.
And that is a little bit
before the Big Bang--
is interesting because now
this James Webb Space Telescope
is pushing it back.
They're saying
there is something.
They're not saying that the
Big Bang didn't happen--
>>NOORY: It's getting us to
the beginning of the Big Bang
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, exactly.
And before that, and there is
something happening before that.
And that, I believe,
is just sort
of some kind of a gestation
period of the universe
or something like that
before the Big Bang.
But what's interesting,
if you think
about these wave movements
as what they describe
that the plumed serpent--
and call that wave movement
of the plumed serpent--
is the bringer of
life, then the Big Bang
just becomes one step in the
evolution of consciousness.
It sort of provides an
important another layer.
It's another layer,
and it prepares
for what later becomes
cells of different kinds.
But it's not just a
material explosion.
It's part of one
of these waves that
has a direction
of creating life,
and that's how they honored the
plumed serpent or Quetzalcoatl.
>>NOORY: All right, well,
let's look at our next picture
and tell us what
we're looking at here.
>>CALLEMAN: OK, well,
this is how I see it.
It's sort of a--
>>NOORY: Did you draw this?
>>CALLEMAN: No, but my
collaborator in Sweden drew it.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>CALLEMAN: And you can
look upon these spheres.
Each one is like a holon and
it's an aspect of consciousness.
And the way I look
upon it is that there
is a cosmic level of
consciousness at the very top
there, and then
that trickles down
to the galactic,
heliospheric, global.
And we are here receiving
a state of consciousness.
And we can leave the
lowest levels aside here.
But that's how I look
upon it, that there
are aspects of our
consciousness that are
determined at the cosmic level.
>>NOORY: Did the
Maya understand this?
>>CALLEMAN: They certainly
had the cosmic perspective.
I couldn't say that
they had any identical.
Well--
>>NOORY: Maybe, maybe.
>>CALLEMAN: If you looked at
that picture, there are crosses.
Each level it's a sphere,
but it's also a tree of life.
And we do know that the Maya
looked upon each human being
as a reflection of
the tree of life,
and we do know that they looked
upon a galactic tree of life
and even a cosmic tree of
life as the source of all
these different things.
So yeah, it's not a big stretch
to say that they saw something
like this.
>>NOORY: Do you think
the universe, Carl,
could be holographic?
>>CALLEMAN: I guess
that's what it is.
It's the same thing
there, isn't it?
>>NOORY: Is it real or not?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah,
I think it's real.
It's very real.
Every level is sort of a
microcosm of the larger
structure.
And that's holography,
I understand it as.
>>NOORY: It's fascinating work.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You learned all this?
>>CALLEMAN: I learned
it somehow, yeah.
>>NOORY: From the ground up?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Talk about, if you
can, why humans suddenly
started to create paintings
on walls and stuff like that.
Why would they do that?
>>CALLEMAN: Well--
>>NOORY: What did they see?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, human
beings do not create any--
at least we haven't found any,
and I don't think they exist--
any kind of art or symbols that
is older than 100,000 years old.
Nobody has found that.
And I think expression of art is
probably a natural human desire.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>CALLEMAN: To me, maybe
that's enough to explain
why they did it.
But what is interesting is that,
if you look at these paintings--
and I've visited some of these
places in France where they have
the cave paintings--
>>NOORY: Oh, they're gorgeous.
>>CALLEMAN: They're gorgeous.
And they're amazing in how they
have portrayed and captured
the essence of the animals.
But on the other hand, it's not
very structured, so to speak.
And so sometimes the
animals are upside down,
and sometimes they're in
this direction and something
like that.
So it seems like
they didn't have
any mind that
created horizontality
or verticality that organized
the way that came later.
And so the way I look upon it is
that when this Long Count began
5,100 years ago, the one that
really became the chronology
of the Maya, then
that meant a shift.
And we see it because
then, suddenly,
real civilizations with
the cities and pyramids
and all these kinds of
things appear on our planet.
So I think that
people were starting
to download another kind of
mind, a mind that gave them
structure.
And it had good sides, it
had bad sides, I'm sure.
>>NOORY: Did the Mayans
believe in God, Carl?
Or a deity, a one-time deity?
>>CALLEMAN: One-time deity.
Well, they certainly
have many deities.
What I've asked
Mayan daykeepers,
as they call the shamans there.
They think that
there is a deity,
but they won't name his name.
It's too holy to say so.
But in ancient times,
it seems like they also
had a deity called Itzamná that
was sort of a highest deity.
>>NOORY: Like the
God, as we would have?
>>CALLEMAN: The God, yeah.
>>NOORY: What about
the Darwinist model?
What is that?
>>CALLEMAN: Well,
these waves provides
a model where we
can understand how
different life forms
with every peak sort of
have emerged novelties.
These waves are creating
the cosmic reality,
including the kind of life
forms that we have here.
And I believe that is how
new species come about.
It's because of these waves
that are creating new species.
But that goes against the sort
of dominating scientific model
today, which says
that it's an accident.
The whole Darwinist
idea is that life
comes about through accidental
changes in the DNA and so forth.
But to me, what this
pyramid actually symbolizes
is a cosmic plan.
It's where every--
>>NOORY: A cosmic time plan.
>>CALLEMAN: A cosmic
time plan even.
>>NOORY: How many people
in the Mayan empire
came up with all this?
>>CALLEMAN: Probably--
I don't know.
As everywhere, I'm
sure there's just
a limited group that sort of are
thinking about these matters.
And who knows?
It's estimated that
there might have been
like eight million people in--
>>NOORY: That's a lot.
>>CALLEMAN: It's a lot.
>>NOORY: For that time period.
>>CALLEMAN: It is a lot.
It is.
And also, if you think
about some of their cities
at the time, it's estimated
that the biggest one, Tikal,
had 80,000 inhabitants.
But then 80,000 people compared
with that in Europe at the time,
maybe London and Paris had 500
people or something like that.
So it was significant, the size
of this culture for its time.
>>NOORY: Where did they go?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, they're
still there, I say.
I mean, that's what
they say themselves.
And they're still there, and
now they might be 10 million
or something like that.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>CALLEMAN: Or 20 million.
>>NOORY: We don't hear
anything about them.
>>CALLEMAN: No, you may not.
But if you go
there, you find it.
Their culture
changed dramatically.
And then, eventually, the
Spanish came and conquered them,
and then they became integrated
in the European power world,
so to speak.
>>NOORY: What is it about
the Maya civilization
that you don't know yet
but you wish you did?
>>CALLEMAN: I would have
liked to know if they had
some ability to time travel.
>>NOORY: You think they did?
>>CALLEMAN: I don't know.
But that's what I would like--
they had a different way of
looking at time, and who knows?
>>NOORY: What is the ninth wave?
>>CALLEMAN: The ninth wave is--
the pyramid has nine levels,
and each one of those levels
corresponds to a wave
like a plumed serpent.
And what the year
2012 represented
means that all of these nine
levels have been activated,
and the ninth wave is the
last one of the waves that
have been activated.
And what you see on
this particular picture
is that, if you look at these
five highest waves, to the right
there you have various
filters to the face,
and these are filters that
express different states
of consciousness simply.
And as you may see there,
the ninth wave, which
is the most recent one and the
one with the highest frequency,
that has no filter.
It's a unity consciousness
in other words.
And that, as I understand, it is
where everything is meant to go.
That's where humanity
is meant to go--
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>CALLEMAN: --to
come back actually
to that state of
consciousness, of unity.
>>NOORY: You've got a colleague
of yours, Patricia Albere.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And she discusses
this ninth wave, as you did,
and the next phase
of human evolution.
Let's take a look.
>>PATRICIA ALBERE: Just shortly
after Carl Calleman wrote his
wonderful and amazing book, "The
Nine Waves of Creation," we met.
He found me.
And we, to our great
delight, discovered
that we were downloading, that
we were experiencing something
very, very similar but
from different angles.
His was this incredible
overview and connection
to the mind quantum
knowledge, which
is incredibly illuminative
and important for everyone
to really become aware of.
The jump that he speaks
about, the quantum jump of you
literally move into a very
different consciousness,
space, reality together.
And when you jump there, as you
find that ability to practice
from there, to connect from
there, the portal opens up,
and you basically experience
the purity, the power,
the divinity of the ninth wave.
And it has nothing to do
with your personal process,
your personal work.
It cannot be accessed
through self-reflection.
through witnessing.
All of the things that
we're taught in separation
that we're working with,
basically things that I had done
for decades in working with
people on their healing,
on their awakening, on
meditation, on being present--
all of those things don't take
you where the jump takes you.
And so discovering--
I named it mutual awakening.
It's a particular practice
that is definitely works.
People from around the world
for now, many, many years
have discovered,
if they're willing,
how to enter into this
madness and this domain
together where the ninth wave
is actually visible, clear,
and it seems to be growing
the more human beings that
learn how to enter
into the portal
where it actually exists,
something you can feel.
It's like cells dividing and
becoming a larger and larger,
more complex body.
So this ninth wave is
where we are headed.
Most of us, those of
you who are listening,
you've been working on
yourselves individually.
There's a particular
way in which
we have been trained to
do that, and it's also
thousands and thousands
of years of humans
being separate
discovering themselves,
discovering their
own momentum in life,
their ability to make
a difference in life.
And this is utterly different.
It's sourced by
divinization itself,
and it has a very different
and exquisite power and purity
that if you are
interested and you
want to find out how to
actually knock on that door
and get through--
at least I know one
way for sure to find
it is through mutual awakening.
It's not something you
can sit by yourself
and open yourself up
to being aligned with.
It actually is necessary
that you enter into something
with more than yourself.
>>NOORY: Carl, what do you
think of what she just said?
>>CALLEMAN: Oh,
it's nice to hear.
There is a reason
that the pyramids are
built like terraces, and
that is that every level is
like a quantum leap
to another level.
And what she's
talking about here
is that when you do the final
quantum leap to the ninth wave.
And what initially
struck me with her work
was the fact that--
I mean, you asked earlier
what happened in 2012.
But it turned out then that one
of the things that happened,
according to the Mayan calendar,
is that the ninth wave became
active, and it turned out that
it was at that point in time
that she also discovered
that people were starting
to do that kind of a leap.
And I think--
>>NOORY: So you agree with her?
>>CALLEMAN: I mostly
agree with her.
In order to climb
to the top there,
you have to have some
kind of connection
to the cosmic similar
to God, so to speak,
the cosmic consciousness
in that step.
So you have to
have that, I think.
You have to have faith
in something much bigger
than yourself.
But then, in addition
to that, I think
what she is doing is valuable
practice for people to discover
when they have together,
like mutually, experienced
this kind of unity consciousness
that the ninth wave is bringing.
>>NOORY: What is the
sixth wave, Carl?
>>CALLEMAN: The sixth
wave is the one--
it's the same as the Long Count
that started 5,100 years ago.
And it is basically the one that
creates human civilizations.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look at
the graphic that you brought.
>>CALLEMAN: OK.
Yeah, that's the
last one of them.
>>NOORY: What is the seventh
peak of the sixth wave?
>>CALLEMAN: Right, so we saw
that earlier wave before,
and now this is the last one
of those in the seventh--
the seventh or the 13th of them.
>>NOORY: Chronologizing all
these events that have occurred?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, it does.
>>NOORY: Is there
a significance?
>>CALLEMAN: I think so.
I think the world now,
after 2011 in particular,
is going into--
there is a downturn here.
There is a huge transformation
of the world going on,
and I think, especially
this year, I think,
will be very, very dramatic.
And we will just
have to hope that it
will have the best kinds
of transformative aspects.
But the world that existed
before 2011, it won't come back.
>>NOORY: Why do
empires collapse?
>>CALLEMAN: Because they are
created by people downloading
a particular mind of duality.
And that mind of
duality, it creates
empires that would lead too
far to go into detail of that.
But it creates empires.
Then however, when the wave goes
into the valley, so to speak,
the duality disappears
and it's sort
of a Dark Age coming in where
much more troubling things are
happening.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Let's look at our
final graphic, Carl,
and tell us what
we're looking at here.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, here
we have it all in its--
and what we saw then was
just the last peak there
at this particular time.
And it's indisputable that
these beginning points and end
points really do correspond
to very significant changes
and emergence of empires
and collapses of empires.
>>NOORY: And
collapses of them too.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And they
all seem to collapse.
>>CALLEMAN: They all
seem to collapse.
And maybe simply because only if
they collapse will something new
be able to take its place.
>>NOORY: Does technology
contribute to that?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, I would think
this technology is a product
of these waves as well.
That's how I look upon it.
>>NOORY: Our
calendar is different
from the Mayan calendar.
Why?
>>CALLEMAN: Well, that's--
>>NOORY: Interesting question.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, it's
an interesting question.
Why did they have that
particular and we did not?
First of all, I think
they were very advanced
in their calendrical studies.
They took it very seriously,
and they had asked questions
about what is the meaningful
way of looking at the changing
times.
But it's also the
calendar that I
would say that their calendar
is a quantum calendar.
It's not based on
physical events.
>>NOORY: Like ours is?
>>CALLEMAN: Like ours is.
Ours is based on astronomical
physical cycles--
>>NOORY: Full moons
and things like that?
>>CALLEMAN: Exactly.
Well, they had that as
well, but that was not
their central calendar.
>>NOORY: Yes, ours is based on
our rotation around the sun,
and theirs is not.
>>CALLEMAN: Right.
>>NOORY: Since you've been
looking at all of this,
what is the single one
thing that fascinates you
about all of this, Carl?
Because it's been
a big step for you.
>>CALLEMAN: Well, sure.
I've just felt that it gives--
at least to me, it gives so
many answers to questions
that I've had.
>>NOORY: Do you have
to interpret it?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, there's
some moment of interpretation,
yes, absolutely.
Somebody else might interpret
it quite differently,
but I think there is also
factual evidence that
is indisputable.
>>NOORY: Do you believe in God?
- Yes, to believe in God is
a strange-- but yes, do I--
I can answer, do I
seek to connect to God?
Yes, I do.
>>NOORY: Is there
hope for mankind?
>>CALLEMAN: I think so.
I think we're facing quite
difficult times but that--
the point with these waves
is that they go up and down,
and there will be coming--
>>NOORY: Cycles.
>>CALLEMAN: Cycles.
And there will be coming--
once this very big
transformation is completed,
I think there will be hope for--
>>NOORY: How can people
track down your work?
Do you have a website?
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, I
have, calleman.com.
>>NOORY: Spell that out for us.
>>CALLEMAN:
C-A-L-L-E-M-A-N dot com.
But then I have, I guess,
eight books on amazon.com.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
Just type your name in
there, and they all pop up.
>>CALLEMAN: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: Carl, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>CALLEMAN: Oh, thank you
for having me very much.
>>NOORY: The Mayan
calendar, it has always
been a fascinating aspect of
life and the future of mankind,
and Carl has been able
to at least decipher
a lot of that for us.
Thanks for watching the program.
[THEME MUSIC]